let's go to the US now it says it won't
support any Israeli plans to conduct a
major military operation in Rafa White
House spokesman John Kirby warned that
doing so would be a disaster for the
more than a million civilians who fled
there Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has said the military would
soon enter the city to Target Hamas
calling it one of the militants last
remaining
strongholds smoke Rises over the crowded
city of Rafa Israeli bombardments in
preparation for a ground assault into
what it says is a stronghold for Hamas
which is classified as a terrorist
organization by many
countries but for hundreds of thousands
of gazin who have fled to the southern
end of the strip after being told by the
Israeli Army to leave their homes
further north Rafa is the last Refuge
it's also home to one of the biggest
border crossings for Aid and supplies
Israel says Rafa also houses multiple
tunnels that Hamas uses to supply itself
with
arms the shelling has already taken its
toll here even before soldiers
arrive three missiles hit this same
place where I'm standing there's not
much to say about the victims children
women and the elderly I wish we could
have collected their whole bodies
instead we have bits and pieces we're
all hearing that there will be a ground
incursion into Rafa I imagine things
will be extremely bad but Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin net yahu insists
there's no alternative to the military
collapse of
Hamas there is no solution other than
total Victory if Hamas survives in Gaza
it is only a matter of time until the
next Massacre and the Access of Evil of
Iran and its proxies will continue their
campaign we instructed the Army to
prepare to operate also in Rafa and in
two of the camps in the center the last
remaining strongholds of
Hamas with peacemaking efforts
apparently stalled for the time being
the people of Rafa will pay the price
for both sides unwillingness to come to
a
deal for more on the American
perspective on the situation let's go
across to Janelle dumala from our
Washington Bureau it's good to see you
Janelle the US says it will not support
an Israeli operation in Rafa uh have any
more details emerged
indeed we heard from both the White
House and the state department today
both of them saying that Washington will
not back an assault into Rafa earlier we
heard from National Security Council
spokesman John Kirby saying that they
had not seen any evidence that Israel
was in fact planning to do this
imminently nevertheless Washington feels
it is important to warn that this would
represent disaster that this would
represent terrible humanitarian effects
we are of course talking about 1.2
million people Sheltering there now it
is not clear what the US would do at
this point if uh Israel decided to
proceed with such an incursion but if
the death toll in Gaza approaching
28,000 is anything to go by despite us
ENT treaties then we can probably tell
at this point if is probably fair to say
that uh the U that such us entreaties
are not falling on the most receptive of
years so a clear warning but no more
details about how the US will put this
pressure is it possible that this will
have an effect on the aid package for
Israel that the Senate is
debating well that's difficult to say in
advance but just to back up a little
what we're talking about here is the
foreign aid package being currently
debated in the Senate as he said So
within this package 14 billion dollar uh
uh should be earmarked for security
assistance for Israel $1 billion to go
to uh civilians affected by uh to
towards humanitarian uh assistance for
civilians affected by war in the West
Bank Gaza and um uh and Ukraine now the
bill is at a stage where amendments are
going to be proposed to it this is a
bill that is probably going to stay on
the senate floor until next week however
what is going to be interesting to watch
out for is whether Democrats especially
from Democratic senators especially from
the left wing of the party if they will
be able to push through amendments that
would compel recipients of such security
assistance from the US to be a to only
use Us weapons in accordance with
International humanitarian law law and
not impede efforts to get humanitarian
assistance to civilians now these are
amendments that might not mention Israel
specifically by name but what could
happen is the news of such an incursion
in to Rafa might Focus minds and might
uh might further uh lend urgency to
efforts for lawmakers to get Washington
to use the leverage that it has over
Israel
quite a bit to follow there DWS Janelle
dumal in Washington thank you so much
for doing that for
us